1. What is the position property?

Answer: The position property controls how an element is positioned
on a webpage.


2. What is position: static?

Answer: Static is the default position of an HTML element and it
follows the normal document flow.


3. What is position: relative?

Answer: Relative positioning moves an element from its original
position while keeping its original space in the layout.


4. What is position: absolute?

Answer: Absolute positioning removes an element from the normal flow
and positions it relative to its nearest positioned ancestor.


5. What is position: fixed?

Answer: Fixed positioning keeps an element fixed relative to the
browser viewport even when the page is scrolled.


6. What is position: sticky?

Answer: Sticky positioning allows an element to behave normally until
a specified scroll position is reached, after which it sticks there.


7. What is the difference between relative and absolute?

relative → The element keeps its original space.
absolute → The element is removed from the normal document flow.


8. What is the difference between fixed and sticky?

fixed → The element is fixed to the viewport.

sticky → The element behaves normally first and sticks when a scroll
position is reached.


9. What are top, right, bottom and left?

Answer: These properties are used to position an element after
applying a positioning value such as relative, absolute, fixed or
sticky.


10. What is z-index?

Answer: z-index controls the stacking order of overlapping elements.


11. Which position is the default position?

Answer: static.


12. Does top, left, right and bottom work with static?

Answer: No. They do not work for a statically positioned element.


13. Why do we use position: relative on a parent?

Answer: We commonly use position: relative on a parent so that an
absolutely positioned child can be positioned relative to that
parent.


14. What is the most common combination of relative and absolute?

Answer:

.parent{
    position:relative;
}

.child{
    position:absolute;
}


15. Does fixed positioning stay in the same place when scrolling?

Answer: Yes. A fixed element stays attached to the viewport.


16. Give some real-world uses of absolute positioning.

Answer:

1. Badges
2. Icons
3. Overlays
4. Labels
5. Dropdown elements


17. Give some real-world uses of fixed positioning.

Answer:

1. Chat buttons
2. Floating buttons
3. Back-to-top buttons
4. Fixed navigation


18. Give some real-world uses of sticky positioning.

Answer:

1. Navigation bars
2. Table headers
3. Sidebars
4. Section headings


19. Which property controls overlapping elements?

Answer: z-index.


20. What happens when two elements overlap and one has a higher
z-index?

Answer: The element with the higher z-index generally appears in
front when they are in the same stacking context.